High.
So let's take a look at non-locals scope's and we saw with gogle scopes that a function can access a
global scope variable from inside the function.
But if you nest functions then in nested functions can also access variables defined in the outer function.
So let's look at an example.
Let's say we have our funk and we're going to define a variable here.
Now we're doing an assignment out of phunk.
This means that Python is looking at this x and saying it's local 2 out of phunk it's just created a
local variable and it set it to hello or actually it actually set the label X to reference the object
hello in memory somewhere.
Since everything is a memory reference.
Now we can go ahead and define an in a function that we're creating now inside out of func.
So it will get created when out of func is called K.
And all we're going to do here is print x.
Now you'll notice that we haven't defined x inside in a funk but you will still see the X that's in
Alt-A funk and so let's go ahead and then we're going to cope in a funk from inside out of funk.
So now when we call art of Funk what will happen is the following X which was defined to be and determined
really to be local.
Two out of funk will be assigned the value hello.
Then in a funk is going to be created not executed.
It will be created and this X here that's used inside in a funk.
Python is going to realize that this is not a local variable because there wasn't an assignment inside
in a funk to X so x is a non local variable then we call in a funk.
At that time.
Then in a funk will be executed.
And at that time I thought go and look up the value of x and it will look for it in an enclosing scope.
In this case it's going to find it right away in the out of phunk scope.
So now when we call out of funk we see Halo.
So it worked perfectly fine.
Now you can of course that's more than just one level.
Right.
This works at different levels as well.
So we can have outer functions redefined out of funk.
We're going to define Xon out of funk and now we're going to have another one.
And here's all we're going to do is we're going to define another function in that too.
Right.
So that too is going to be inside in a one.
And here we're going to say print x.
OK.
And then after a two has been defined We're going to actually run into two from in a one.
So we still have to call in one from inside out of funk.
So notice what's happening here.
We are defining out of funk when we run out of funk it will go ahead create X it will then define in
a one in a one defined in two.
But it hasn't run yet.
So that definition hasn't occurred.
What happens is that after we invoke in a one or call in a one then it gets called that it will define
in a two way and run it yet until we hit.
Now this line which calls in the two.
So it's just a way of nested calling structure essentially.
So now if we call out a funk we get hello.
So it was able to basically navigate two levels up and the non-locals Kobes until it found.
Hello.
Now Python will determine if something is local or not based on whether it's been assigned in the function.
So if we do this step order funk and we'll go back to just one level of testing.
Let's say we have exit.
Hello and then we're going to say deaf ear and for an hour we're going to redefine X and say x is equal
to let's say Python and here we're going to print in an X so we know that we're printing X from inside
the inner function.
Next we're going to call it right from inside out of funk.
And then after a has run we're going to print.
And then we'll print the value of x.
So what will happen now if we call out of book it's going to run out of phunk now right out of function
or is it defined.
I hit shift enter on the cells so defined it already.
Now I'm calling it.
So at that point it assigns hello to x.
It then creates the inner function hasn't run it yet just creates it.
Now it calls in at that point.
This code runs but when it was created not run when it was created.
Python looked at this code and so on assignment to x.
So it's an ok x is a local variable.
So this X over here is not the same as the x over here.
This erks essentially is masking the x from the outer enclosing scope.
So when we print X from inside in here we will print Python.
But when we then print x an hour well X it will be this one over here which was not modified the X and
X were different.
So now when we call out of phunk we see that in our printed Python and our still remained and spool
printed Hello.
So now if we want to actually make this assignment here modify the X from out of phunk we have to explicitly
tell Python that this is a non-local variable.
Just like we did with Global's.
Remember if we wanted to modify a global variable from inside a function we have to explicitly tell
Python this is a global variable we have to say global What with a variable name was.
So in this case we're going to do exactly the same thing.
So I'm going to copy and paste this function exactly as is.
The only thing I'm going to add is I'm going to tell Python X in this inner function is non-local.
In other words look for it somewhere up the chain not happens to be just one level up but it could be
me on multiple levels up and we'll see an example of that.
So now when we define this out of function and if we call it not we run it.
What will happen is that when it gets cold over here right then it will actually modify Python.
So to see this let's go ahead and print out.
And let's say before K will print X and this is before calling in.
Right so actually let's do it here because it really only matters when we call in.
Right.
So we're going to print x before we call in.
And then we're going to print X again after we have called in.
So let's go ahead now and run this function.
And as you can see out before printed Hello.
Yeah.
Because that's what X was.
Then we called in and in a set x to python but it was a non-local x.
So Peiffer went ahead and looked and found X Xon out of phunk so inside her X this python obviously
since we said X to Python.
But once we finished running then the X and out of phunk was actually modified inside.
And as you can see the x value is still Python.
It was changed as opposed to this example where we didn't define X to be non-local.
So again if you have an assignment then Python will consider this to be a local variable unless you
this pacifically declare it to be non-local.
That's the really the crux of this whole thing.
Now you can of course go non-local more than one level up.
So what I mean by this is let's go ahead and create art out of phunk again let's say X equals hello
and let's define an in a function in a one k and then inside of that I'm going to say print and we'll
say in one.
We'll go ahead and print x.
Then we're going to define in a two and an in a two.
We're going to say non-local X.
Right.
And actually you know what I'm going to remove X from this all together so as not to muddy the waters.
Let's just keep it very simple and I'm going to set X equal to Python.
OK.
And I'm not even going to print x here with no it's just going to be Python.
So after a two has been defined We're going to call in at two right.
We're inside in a one and after we've defined in a once or.
Now we're back in the outer function.
We're going to call in a one.
And now we're going to print x.
So if we Nakul order what you'll see is that X is python.
And it was modified to levels deep.
So there was no x defined in a 1 right.
X wasn't in a 1.
X was defined in a.
But it was declared as non-local.
So this X here in Python looked inside in 0 1 didn't find x.
So it goes one level up finds x.
Ok fine.
So excess Partho.
And so this halo here was changed from inside in a to so we were two levels deep.
Once the change occurred.
Now we can make non-local had different nesting levels as well.
So if we go back and take this example I'm just going to copy paste it.
And now in a one I'm going to say non-local X as well.
And I'm going to say x is equal to Python.
At in in 0 1 and then in a two I'm going to change x to Monte K..
Now after we've finished running everything.
Let's see what the value of x is.
And as you both guessed it's Montie because in two when we ran it well when inat to defined Python so
non-local exercise.
OK.
So I need to look for X up a level and it found it because non-local X means it's here.
So basically it's Think of it as a chain or just think of it as this X going directly to the X in the
outer function because really this non-local X and this non-local X are both referring to this.
So it's not that this x points to this X and this one points to this one this x points to this one and
this x points to this one because X is what's called the free variable will get to those later on in
a one.
However you look at it it doesn't matter it's just equivalent.
Depends how you prefer understanding the chain of non-locals.
Now one thing I want to point out is that if you do something like this def outer and let's go ahead.
Sorry First make a global variable let's call it X and let's say that call Licata Python.
So now we got a global variable x called Python right.
We can just print out we see Python.
Now let's go ahead and find out.
And here we're going to say global x.
OK.
And we're going to set X equal to let's say Monte and then we're going to define an in a function.
And inside this in a function we're going to say non local x and then we're going to set X equal to.
Hello.
And then after that's done we're going to try and print X from inside out.
And then we'll see if we can print X to see the global variable x.
But there's a problem here right because we're telling in-air that X is non-local.
So Python is going to look but it's only looking in the local scopes and it's going to go up one level.
There's a local scope right here Altro has a local scope and is going to look for X in the local scope
of our But it doesn't contain x x is the global x.
So X doesn't actually belong to our local scope it belongs to the global scope.
This is just a label saying hey this X is the global variable.
So if we try and execute this then Python tells us I can't do this.
I couldn't find a binding I couldn't find the non-local X it didn't exist.
Now if we didn't have this in here right we didn't have that then.
Even though we have x' Python which is the global variable this would now be a local variable that would
mask the global variable because Python sees the assignment.
There is no global or non-local declaration for X.
In fact non-local wouldn't work because there is no local scope outside of our it's running directly
in the model.
But this one is local to our.
So this will work just fine.
Right and if we execute our
then we'll see that it printed Montie right from our.
So because we didn't execute in it.
So sorry let's go ahead and execute in a no.
And if we were on that then we see that the X in our 2 has changed to hello because we change it when
we cold enter.
Right but if we now print X which is the Global X that stayed Python.
So in this case here if you have global x and this here won't work.
If you in that case you really just have to say it's global right.
If it's if you're trying to reference the global variable x Don't try and say I'm going to reference
the non-local X which is itself the global x.
No you have to go directly to global k.
So that's why you're probably better off thinking of this as going directly to something rather than
a chain because it's not a chain.
Right.
X when you say non-local X it's not going to find this X in here and then say OK but this X is the global
x that won't work as we saw.
All right.
Thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next video.